<title>Forth standards meeting at EuroForth 2005</title>

<h1>Forth standards meeting at <a
href="http://personales.unican.es/ceballof/ef05/">EuroForth 2005</a></h1>

On 2005-10-20, 2005-10-21 and 2005-10-23 there was a Forth standards
meeting, right before and partly during EuroForth 2005.  The
participants were:

<ul>

<li>Willem Botha, CCS, South Africa
<li>Federico de Ceballos, University of Cantabria, Spain
<li>M. Anton Ertl, TU Wien, Austria
<li>N. J. Nelson, Micross, England (Observer)
<li>Peter Knaggs, University of Bournemouth, England
<li>Stephen Pelc, MPE, England
<li>Bill Stoddart, University of Teeside, England (Observer)

</ul>

The following topics were discussed:

<h2>Accepting proposals into the standard document</h2>

Federico de Ceballos chaired this part of the meeting.

<p>The four proposals which had gone to a CfV were discussed:

<ul>
<li> <a href="../deferred.html">deferred</a>
<li> <a href="../extension-query.html">extension-query</a>
<li> <a href="../parse-name.html">parse-name</a>
<li> <a href="../defined.html">defined</a>
</ul>

Various changes were suggested that were necessary for inclusion into
the standards document.  These changes then resulted in adapted
versions of the normative parts of these proposals (performed by Anton
Ertl).  The resulting proposals were then discussed, and various small
clarifications and changes were incorporated, resulting in the
following normative parts.

<ul>
<li> <a href="../document/deferred.html">deferred</a>
<li> <a href="../document/extension-query.html">extension-query</a>
<li> <a href="../document/parse-name.html">parse-name</a>
<li> <a href="../document/defined.html">defined</a>
</ul>

These proposals were all accepted with vote results 5Y:0N:0A.

<h2>Future proposals</h2>

A number of potential topics for future proposals were discussed, and
eventually some participants volunteered to write RfDs for the
following topics:

<dl>

<dt>Federico de Ceballos
<dd>
<pre>
number prefixes 
0 for NIL 
! and @ for 16-bit and 32-bit signed and unsigned integers, bytes, octets 
</pre>

<dt>M. Anton Ertl
<dd>
<pre>
separate FP stack 
required 
directory stuff in general 
directory handling for included and required 
key names for EKEY results 
</pre>

<dt>Stephen Pelc
<dd>
<pre>
{ (locals), fp locals, buffer locals 
S\" .\" 
iors can be THROWn 
SYNONYM 
structures 
</pre>

<dt>Bill Stoddart
<dd>
<pre>
Using TAB, CR, LF, FF in source code 
</pre>

</dl>

<h2>Integration into the standards document</h2>

Should new words be put into the established wordsets, or into new
ones?

<p>The eventual goal is to usually integrate the new words into
existing wordsets with related functionality; in some cases it may be
more appropriate to create a new word set.  However, as an
intermediate step the new proposals will at first be kept separate, to
make it easier for readers of the document to see what is changing.

<p>How are the extension-query names reflected in the standard (if at
all)?

<p>The glossary header for new words includes the extension-query
string for the extension that proposed it.  In addition, there will be
a chapter or normative appendix that lists all the extensions, their
extension-query strings and the components (word definitions etc.) that
it consists of.

<p>Should the tests of a proposal or the reference implementation
become normative?  No.  This could lead to conflicting normative
sections; also, making the reference implementation normative would
lead to overspecification.

<h2>Review of the RfD/CfV process</h2>

How well is the RfD/CfV process working at generating high-quality
proposals for standardisation and getting information about their
popularity? What could be improved?  Or should we do something
completely different?

<p>Many of the participants were not very familar with how well the
process worked in practice, and had no suggestions for improvements.

<p>The (normative part of the) proposals required adaption before
integrating them into the document, but there was a widespread feeling
among the participants that proposals in the form of unambiguous
instructions to the document editor (which is the form that would be
voted on by the standards committee) would be harder to understand for
the CfV audience.

<p>The resulting idea was to have two forms of the proposal, with the
same content: First the not-so-formal form used in the CfV, and later
a form for integrating it into the document.

<h2>Official standards body</h2>

Should we run the standard through a standards body like ANSI, ISO,
IEEE, etc.? If so, which one?

<p>Some participants consider the blessing of the future standards
document by an official standards body very important, and we agreed
to work towards this goal by writing the document in the appropriate
style, and by keeping documentation about all our steps.  However, the
general idea was to first develop the document without involving a
standards body, and deal with them at the end.

<p>Various candidate standards bodies were discussed; none was decided
on, but it might be that going through ANSI again might be the easiest
route.

<h2>Chairman and Editor</h2>

M. Anton Ertl was appointed as the chair of the committee unopposed.

<p>Peter Knaggs was appointed editor unopposed.

<h2>Next meeting</h2>

After some discussion about possibly having two meetings per year, we
decided to just have one meeting per year for now.  The next meeting
will again be on the day before the next EuroForth conference
(probably in Cambridge, date to be announced).

<h2>Open questions</h2>

Which standard documents should we start from?  Peter Knaggs has a
version of dpANS99a in LaTeX form, convertible into a fully hyperlinked
PDF file.  However, it is yet unclear how this document differs from
the ANS/ISO Forth documents and dpANS6.

<p>How do we get from the CfV proposal to the form for integration
into the document?  One opinion was that the original proponent should
do it.  On a related topic, there was the opinion that a proposal
(de-facto) needs a champion in the committee to get approval by the
standards committee.  So, if the proponent finds a champion in the
committee, they could produce the for-the-document version of the
proposal together.


<h2>Improvements for future standard meetings</h2>

<ul>

<li>The participants should familiarise themselves with the proposals
beforehand.

<li>Paper printouts of the proposals should be available at the
meeting.

<li>Proposals should be available in the form needed for integration
into the standards document in addition to the CfV form.

<li>There should be a champion for the proposal in the meeting.

</ul>

<hr><a href="../">Anton Ertl</a>

