<title>Forth 200x standards meeting at EuroForth 2006</title>
<h1>Forth 200<em>x</em> standards meeting at EuroForth 2006</h1>
Once again the Forth-200<em>x</em> standards committee took place
the day before the EuroForth 2006 conference.

The participants were:
Willem Botha,
Federico de Ceballos,
M. Anton Ertl (Chair),
Peter Knaggs (Editor),
Stephen Pelc and
Bill Stoddart.

There where also two observers:
Nick Nelson and
Jannus P&ouml;ial.

<h2>RfD/CvF-Process</h2>
The RfD/CfV-Process and its relationship with the meeting was discussed,
and specified the following schedule:

<ol>
<li> A RfD should be published, for the first time, at least 12
	weeks before the meeting in order to be able to keep the other
	deadlines.
<li> The CFV must be submitted at the latest 6 weeks before the
	meeting at which it is to be discussed.
<li> The returning officer must publish the <em>Current
	Standings</em> at the latest 4 weeks before the meeting.
<li> The CfV will then be discussed at the meeting, it is advisable
	for the proponent to attend the meeting to defend their
	proposal. If they are unable to attend, a &quot;Champion&quot;
	should be found.
<li> The majority decides.
</ol>
<p>
The contact details of the Committee members will be published, so
that the Forth community can lobby them in place of attending the
meeting.
</p>
<h2>Review of Basis document (06.2)</h2>
<p>
Peter Knaggs, the editor of the standard document, presented the
document which was present as L<sup>A</sup>T<sub>E</sub>X-source
code and in PDF-form (both of which will be published).
It can be produced among other things in a Inline version, where
the rationale for a word is given with the defintion of the word
rather than in a seperate appendix.
Naturally there were still improvement suggestions.
</p>
<h2>Discussion of CvFs</h2>
<dl>
<dt> <a href="/ekeys.html"><code>EKEY</code> return values</a></dt>
<dd>
	Proposes a set of contants which can be used to interpret the
	values returned by <code>EKEY</code>, e.g. recognizing whether
	a cursor key was pressed and which. The committee requested
	further clarification of the relationship between
	<code>EKEY</code> and <code>KEY</code>, otherwise the
	suggestion was accepted.
</dd>
<p></p>
<dt><a href="/fp-stack.html">Separate FP Stack</a></dt>
<dd>
	Forth systems are to guarantee that there is a separate floating
	point stack. The committee required that this proposal should
	be rewritten to make the effects on existing systems and
	programs clearer.
</dd>
<p></p>
<dt> <a href="/required.html">One-time file loading</a></dt>
<dd>
	This proposes a new word word <code>required</code>, which
	functions in such a way as <code>included</code>, if the file
	were not loaded yet, but does nothing if it were already loaded;
	additionally <code>include</code> and <code>require</code> are
	still standardized. This suggestion was accepted.
</dd>
</dl>

<h2>Discussion of RfDs</h2>
<p>
In addition, the current proposals, which had not yet reached the
CFV-Stage where discussed.  The reforulating of <code>TO</code>
to allows for future changes (<code>2VALUE</code> and
<code>FVALUE</code>) to be simplified arrose out of these
discussions.
</p><p>
Further it was decided that minutes of the meeting should be
published.  This is considered importantly for an official
standardisation organization.
</p>

<h2>Next Meeting</h2>
The next meeting takes place again on the day before the EuroForth,
and you are cordially invited to attend it.

<hr><a href="http://www.complang.tuwien.ac.at/anton/">Anton Ertl</a>
