<title>Forth standards meeting at EuroForth 2007</title>

<h1>Forth standards meeting at EuroForth 2007</h1>

On 2007-09-13 and 2005-09-14 there was a Forth standards
meeting, right before and partly during EuroForth 2007.  The
participants were:

<ul>
<li>Sergey N. Baranov, Motorola St. Petersburg, Russia (observer)
<li>Willem Botha, CCS, South Africa
<li>Federico de Ceballos, University of Cantabria, Spain
<li>M. Anton Ertl, TU Wien, Austria
<li>Ulrich Hoffmann, Heidelberger Druckmaschinen, Germany (observer, late)
<li>Peter Knaggs, University of Bournemouth, England
<li>Dagobert Michelsen, Baltic Online Computer GmbH, Germany (observer, late)
<li>Bernd Paysan, Germany
<li>Stephen Pelc, MPE, England
<li>Carsten Strotmann, Germany (observer, late)
</ul>

At this meeting the observers were allowed to vote.  Anton Ertl
chaired most of the meeting, Peter Knaggs chaired the discussions on
proposals by Anton Ertl.

<p>The following topics were discussed (not always in this order):

<h2>Accepting proposals into the standard document</h2>

<p>The following proposals which had gone to a CfV were discussed and voted on:

<dl>
<dt> <a href="../structures.html">Structures</a> <dd>There was some
grumbling about the absence of test cases, but eventually the proposal
was accepted: 7Y:0N:0N

<dt> <a href="../throw-iors.html">Throw IORs</a> <dd>After some
discussion, where Stephen Pelc argued that the presence of the new
throw values was necessary to convince Forth implementors for embedded
systems to return IORs that are useful for THROWing, this proposal was
accepted: 7Y:0N:0A.

<dt> <a href="../ekeys.html">EKEY return values for some keyboard
events</a> <dd>Discussion focused on the interaction between
EKEY?/EKEY and KEY?/KEY.  Anton Ertl then produced <a
href="../ekeys-clarification">a description of one way in which a
standard program might deal with this issue</a>; that description was
to be added to the rationale of EKEY.  This settled the issue, and the
proposal was accepted: 9Y:0N:1A (the abstention was from an observer).

<dt> <a href="../fp-stack.html">Separate FP stack</a> <dd>In the 2006
meeting it had been unclear to some participants what the effect of
making separate stacks standard would be on existing programs and
systems.  Anton Ertl produced a <a
href="../fp-stack-clarification">description of that effect</a>.  This
description satisfied the participants.  Anton Ertl then proposed that
he would write up the appropriate changes for the standard document,
and that this should be voted on in the next meeting.

<dt> <a href="../number-prefixes.html">Number Prefixes</a> <dd>The CfV
and the announcement current standings had been too late for this
meeting (according to the rules set up last time), but the committee
decided to process this proposal at its discretion.  Accepted
7Y:0N:0A.

<dt> <a href="../to.html">Rewrite of TO</a> (Wording change, no effect
on systems or programs) <dd>Accepted: 8Y:0N:0A

<dt> <a href="../front-matter.html">Front Matter (Meta-Information, no
effect on systems or programs)</a> <dd>Accepted: 8Y:0N:0A

</dl>

The presence of a <a href="../forth07-1.pdf">version of the standards
document</a> that had all the proposals incorporated in a way that
made the proposed changes visible was a great help in these
discussions.


<h2>RfDs</h2>

The following proposals (currently in RfD phase) were
discussed:

<dt> <a href="../.html">Enhanced locals</a> <dd>The discussion mainly
centered around the following points: whether to split the present RfD
into several RfDs (yes, '{' syntax and buffer locals); whether to
include BUILDLV (no); syntax for buffer locals (feedback on earlier
RfDs indicates that using the last character of the word to be
declared is deemed un-Forth-like by many); how useful buffer locals
are and for what applications.

<dt> <a href="../escaped-strings.html">Escaped strings</a> <dd>There
were discussions about the following topics: the presence and absence
of specific escapes (some changes in that respect were suggested by
some committee members, but none had wide support); whether the escape
characters should be case sensitive (yes); whether the hex digits in
\xAB should be case insensitive (yes).

<dt> <a href="../synonym.html">Synonyms</a> <dd>Some of the
discussions that had been led electronically, were repeated (using
AKA; argument order).

<dt> <a href="../xchars.html">Extended characters</a> <dd>The name of
Forth chars was deemed to be confusing in the presence of xchars, and
it was suggested that they should be renamed into pchars (for
<em>primitive characters</em>) in a separate wording change proposal.
Bernd Paysan reported the changes he intended to apply to his latest
xchars proposal.  The question of how to interface to various other
character sets and encodings on I/O inspired a lot of discussion;
Anton Ertl outlined his ideas for a solution (conversion on I/O, with
encoding possibly specified in the fam passed to OPEN-FILE), which was
not widely supported; the final recommendation to Bernd Paysan was not
to lead his RfD to CfV without addressing this issue; the I/O issue
should be covered in another RfD, but only after gaining some more
experience with it.  Several of these discussions were continued in
more depth in the EuroForth Internationalisation workshop.

<dt> <a href="../2value.html">2VALUE</a> and <a
href="../fvalue.html">FVALUE</a> <dd>It was agreed that these
proposals should be rewritten for to new TO wording and then proceed
to a CfV.

<dt> <a href="../directories.html">Directories</a> <dd>Anton Ertl
presented the problem of referring to files relative to the directory
of the currently included file.  Stephen Pelc pointed out that this is
not the only problem related to directories.  The discussion
eventuelly suggested a solution that would not not be a one-off
solution, but would lead the door open to a macro solution that would
also be useful for the other problems.  The suggested prefix for
referring to the include directory was <code>%inc%/</code>.

</dl>


<h2>Future RfDs</h2>

Federico de Ceballos presented some proposals that he plans to submit
as RfDs:

<dl>

<dt> 0 as NIL <dd> His proto-RfD changes HERE and ALLOCATE.  Some
alternative suggestions were made, in particular changing the
definition of <em>contiguous region</em>.

<dt> 8-bit, 16-bit, 32-bit memory access <dd>He presented a
comprehensive set of words for the purpose.  There was some discussion
about naming (U@16 vs. W@; some approvement was expressed for
Federicos naming despite its deviation from common practice), about
alignment (network order accesses should not require alignment, native
accesses should).

</dl>

Federico de Ceballos promised to submit RfDs on these topics soon.


<h2>Other topics</h2>

Peter Knaggs presented the current draft of the standard document and
the committee discussed it.  One suggestion was that it should be
clearer what is normative and what is not (through colour or font).
The inlining of the tests was criticised as distracting.

<p>The document and its source are now on www.forth200x.org, but not
yet linked.

<p>A German version of the minutes of the 2006 meeting were published
in the Vierte Dimension (Forth-Gesellschaft).  Peter Knaggs has
contacted Paul Frenger about publishing the minutes in SIGPLAN
Notices.

<p>The next voting meeting is to be again on the day before the next
EuroForth (probably on September 25th/26th, 2008 in Vienna).  In
addition, a non-voting review meeting was suggested on the Thursday
before the Forth-Tagung (near Ulm in April/May 2008); Ulrich Hoffmann
said that he would check whether that could be arranged.

<p>Rules for becoming a voting member were discussed and decided: On
the first meeting, a person would become observer, or, on the
discretion of the committee, a voting member; on the second
consecutive meeting, the person would become a voting member.  After
missing two consecutive voting meetings, the person would revert to
non-member status.

<p>Words that were obsolescent in Forth-94 should be moved into a
separate "obsolete" wordset.

<p>[I have here a note saying "numbering", but cannot say what this
was about.]


<hr><a href="http://www.complang.tuwien.ac.at/anton/">Anton Ertl</a>

