M. Anton Ertl
Ulrich Hoffmann (from Future Directions 2)
Simon Kaphahn
Peter Knaggs
Bernd Paysan
Stephen Pelc (+ proxy from Willem Botha)
Leon Wagner
Gerald Wodni

Proxy vote from Willem Botha accepted 7Y:0N:1A (not included in the
counts here, separately noted where it makes a difference)

Review of the 2013-1
  A.17.6.2.2255 SUBSTITUTE
    replace "in the range ..." with "non-negative"
  Typo fixes
  pass with amendments 7Y:0:0

Review of 2014-1
  Make consistent use of "Extended-Character word set"
  Typo fixes
  pass with amendments 7Y:0:0

interpretive S" changes 7Y:0:0
throw-ior changes 7Y:0:0
alignment 7Y:0:0
16 locals for LOCALS| 7Y:0:0

combined online and meeting votes:
Floating-point stack 8Y:0:0

Progress reports:

No progress except: The current proposal for Memory access has been
tried out and found to be unwieldy.

Procedure: Peter incorporates the minor changes in about a week, we
review the document until the end of October, and we vote
electronically by October 31st.  7Y:0:0

The electronic voting system was met with approval.  Teamspeak was
found acceptable (but headsets are required!  This should be added to
the instructions).

Future directions:

Wiki for doing proposals: GW and PK are working that out.  Planned to
replace the mailing list and clf for discussing proposals.

One face-to-face meeting per year and additional electronic meetings
that count for renewing attendance: If you attend an electronic
meeting, it counts as having attended the previous physical meeting.

After the CfV, someone from the committee works with the proposer to
turn the proposal into changes to the document.  That is then
discussed and voted on.  This can be done electronically in the
future.

Discussion about C interface.  Use the Extern: interface (or something
like it), with a notation that allows you to specify that off_t is a d
in Forth and such things.

Library

Stephen Pelc proposes that a library author should produce an
implementation that works on at least two systems.  There has to be a
glossary for the words in the interface.

Review of the proposal process


Future Directions 2

Former future proposals (from the 2005 meeting).  We actually achieved
quite a lot of what we outlined then.

BPÂ´s memory access wordset as interpreted by AE.  Work it further
out and publish the proposal for discussion and contrast with the
other one.  Action: BP/AE

Memory access wordset: new revision published.  To be compared with
the other one.

Obsolescent Words:

make LOCALS| obsolescent 8Y:0:0

make (LOCAL) obsolescent 6Y:0:2 (+1Y from Willem Botha by proxy) not
enough for a consensus

make [compile] obsolescent 8Y:0:0

make WORD obsolescent.  Still needed by FIND, therefore no.

move FIND and WORD to CORE EXT, and the SEARCH version of FIND to
SEARCH EXT.  No, because PARSE and PARSE-NAME are not in CORE.

unlink file and block wordset: Delete the first sentence of 11.3.2 and
the second sentence of 3.2.5.  8Y:0:0

Future Directions 3

quotations: Proposal needs to be written.  Action: BP

format of floating-point numbers (input and output):

Input: We may want a way to make 100. an FP number in the text
interpreter.  And a way to allow a more liberal FP number.  Solution:
use prefixes: *123 and *$-a for doubles and !1 for floats.  At some
point we deprecate "1." as long, and systems are free to use 1. as FP
number.  Allow "," in >float and in prefixed floats.  For FP numbers,
the last separator is the decimal separator.  Action: SP

hardware characteristics: 2s-complement and modulo arithmetic on
overflow, 1 chars = 1.  Make it separate proposals, because 1 chars=1
may be controversial.  The 2s-complement/overflow is probably not
controversial.  Action: AE

Threads, multi-tasking and inter-task communication: Interesting
discussion, but common practice needs to be identified.  Action: LW,SP

Sockets: Need to identify common practice.  Action: GW

Directories: up for adoption, volunteers needed

Rewrite compilation etc.; The meaning of an xt; FIND replacement:
Discussion needed.  Action: SP/BP/AE

Recognizers: Matthias Trute is working on an RfD

RfDs should be out/revised by April 4 2015 in order to get discussed
at the 2015 meeting.

Any other business:

Website: Action: GW/PK

Date of next meeting: Either one or two days before or after the next
EuroForth, decided by Peter Knaggs on April 4 (when the RfDs are in).