## Agenda Forth-200x interim Meeting 2022-02-18T14:00Z

Estimated duration 120 minutes + workshop


### Welcome / Participants (10 min)

  * Willem Botha
  * M. Anton Ertl
  * Ulrich Hoffmann
  * Francois Laagel
  * Krishna Myneni
  * Bernd Paysan
  * Stephen Pelc
  * Brad Rodriguez
  * Leon Wagner
  * Gerald Wodni


### Agreement on the agenda  (5 min)
  Do we have any additional points to discuss?

No

### Review of Procedures (5 min)
  What is the recommended way the committee communicates?

We use Mattermost.

After the end of the Yahoo Mailinglists, what is the status of the
replacement forth-ev.de mailing lists.

### Review of new Proposals (since the September'21 meeting) (40 min)

#### [Better wording for "Glossary notation" (ruv)](https://forth-standard.org/proposals/better-wording-for-glossary-notation-#contribution-215)

Leave it open until ruv and the editor is here ([Reply](https://forth-standard.org/proposals/better-wording-for-glossary-notation-#reply-790))

#### [Better wording for "data field" term (ruv)](https://forth-standard.org/proposals/better-wording-for-data-field-term#contribution-214)

Discussion of the purpose and normativeness of 2.1 Definition of terms

Discussion of CREATE ([Reply](https://forth-standard.org/proposals/better-wording-for-data-field-term#reply-791))

#### [Specify that 0 THROW pops the 0 (Anton Ertl)](https://forth-standard.org/proposals/specify-that-0-throw-pops-the-0#contribution-213)

More explicit discussion of 0 (Action: AE)

#### [Tick and undefined execution semantics - 2 (Stephen Pelc)](https://forth-standard.org/proposals/tick-and-undefined-execution-semantics-2#contribution-212)

Write up a proposal (Action: AE)

### Review of other Contributions (since the September'21 meeting) (40 min)

#### Forth Programmer's Handbook ([core, Sq #219](https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/Sq#contribution-219))  

Close ([Reply](https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/Sq#reply-788))

#### Implement with ROT ([core, TwoSWAP #218](https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/TwoSWAP#contribution-218))  

This is the one we want to put in the document ([Reply](https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/TwoSWAP#reply-792))

#### New Line characters in a string passed to EVALUATE ([core, EVALUATE #217](https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/EVALUATE#contribution-217))  

Discussion pointing out three possible solutions ([Reply](https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/Sq#reply-788))

#### Some clarifications ([file, READ-LINE #216](https://forth-standard.org/standard/file/READ-LINE#contribution-216))  

Leave it open until the next meeting (no action)

### Any other business (5 min)

If you want to hash out something, you can use chat.forth-standard.org
(if you feel that forth-standard.org is too formal).

### Date of next meeting (5 min)

September 14-16, 2022, online or in Rome

### Workshop (Forth Modification Lab) (open end)
   - Value flavoured structs
     - What we intend
     - existing approached ClassVFX (Willem Botha), Extended Values (Nick Nelson), FMS (Doug Hoffman)  
       Who will prepare a 3-minute introduction to each of these approaches?
     - New ideas for value flavoured structs
     - discussion


