<h2 id="notes-on-the-forth-200x-interim-meeting-2022-02-18t1400z">Notes on the Forth-200x interim Meeting 2022-02-18T14:00Z</h2>
<h3 id="participants">Participants</h3>
<ul>
<li>Willem Botha</li>
<li>M. Anton Ertl</li>
<li>Ulrich Hoffmann</li>
<li>Francois Laagel</li>
<li>Krishna Myneni</li>
<li>Bernd Paysan</li>
<li>Stephen Pelc</li>
<li>Brad Rodriguez</li>
<li>Leon Wagner</li>
<li>Gerald Wodni</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="review-of-procedures">Review of Procedures</h3>
<p>What is the recommended way the committee communicates?</p>
<p>After the end of the Yahoo Mailinglists, there is a <a href="https://lists.forth-ev.de/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/forth-standard">forth-standard mailing list</a> at forth-ev. For contacting Committee members, use the <a href="https://chat.forth-standard.org/forth-standard/channels/standard">channel Standard in Mattermost</a>.</p>
<h3 id="review-of-new-proposals-since-the-september21-meeting">Review of new Proposals (since the September’21 meeting)</h3>
<h4 id="better-wording-for-glossary-notation-ruv"><a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/better-wording-for-glossary-notation-#contribution-215">Better wording for “Glossary notation” (ruv)</a></h4>
<p>Leave it open until ruv and the editor is here (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/better-wording-for-glossary-notation-#reply-790">Reply</a>)</p>
<h4 id="better-wording-for-data-field-term-ruv"><a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/better-wording-for-data-field-term#contribution-214">Better wording for “data field” term (ruv)</a></h4>
<p>Discussion of the purpose and normativeness of 2.1 Definition of terms</p>
<p>Discussion of CREATE (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/better-wording-for-data-field-term#reply-791">Reply</a>)</p>
<h4 id="specify-that-0-throw-pops-the-0-anton-ertl"><a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/specify-that-0-throw-pops-the-0#contribution-213">Specify that 0 THROW pops the 0 (Anton Ertl)</a></h4>
<p>More explicit discussion of 0 (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/specify-that-0-throw-pops-the-0?hideDiff#reply-794">Revised Proposal</a>)</p>
<h4 id="tick-and-undefined-execution-semantics---2-stephen-pelc"><a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/tick-and-undefined-execution-semantics-2#contribution-212">Tick and undefined execution semantics - 2 (Stephen Pelc)</a></h4>
<p>Write up a proposal (Action: AE)</p>
<h3 id="review-of-other-contributions-since-the-september21-meeting">Review of other Contributions (since the September’21 meeting)</h3>
<h4 id="forth-programmers-handbook-core-sq-219">Forth Programmer’s Handbook (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/Sq#contribution-219">core, Sq #219</a>)</h4>
<p>Close (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/Sq#reply-788">Reply</a>)</p>
<h4 id="implement-with-rot-core-twoswap-218">Implement with ROT (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/TwoSWAP#contribution-218">core, TwoSWAP #218</a>)</h4>
<p>This is the one we want to put in the document (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/TwoSWAP#reply-792">Reply</a>)</p>
<h4 id="new-line-characters-in-a-string-passed-to-evaluate-core-evaluate-217">New Line characters in a string passed to EVALUATE (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/EVALUATE#contribution-217">core, EVALUATE #217</a>)</h4>
<p>Discussion pointing out three possible solutions (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/Sq#reply-788">Reply</a>)</p>
<h4 id="some-clarifications-file-read-line-216">Some clarifications (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/file/READ-LINE#contribution-216">file, READ-LINE #216</a>)</h4>
<p>Leave it open until the next meeting (no action)</p>
<h3 id="any-other-business">Any other business</h3>
<p>If you want to hash out something, you can use Mattermost (if you feel that forth-standard.org is too formal).</p>
<h3 id="date-of-next-meeting-5-min">Date of next meeting (5 min)</h3>
<p>September 14-16, 2022, online or in Rome</p>
<h3 id="workshop-forth-modification-lab-open-end">Workshop (Forth Modification Lab) (open end)</h3>
<ul>
<li>Value flavoured structs
<ul>
<li>What we intend</li>
<li>existing approached ClassVFX (Willem Botha), Extended Values (Nick Nelson), FMS (Doug Hoffman)<br />
Who will prepare a 3-minute introduction to each of these approaches?</li>
<li>New ideas for value flavoured structs</li>
<li>discussion</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>
