<h1 id="forth-200x-interim-meeting-2024-02-16t1500z">Forth-200x interim Meeting 2024-02-16T15:00Z</h1>
<h2 id="welcome-participants">Welcome / Participants</h2>
<ul>
<li>Alex McDonald</li>
<li>Anton Ertl</li>
<li>Brad Rodriguez</li>
<li>Gerald Wodni</li>
<li>Krishna Myneni</li>
<li>Leon Wagner</li>
<li>Ruvim</li>
<li>Stephen Pelc</li>
<li>Ulrich Hoffmann</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="agreement-on-the-agenda">Agreement on the agenda</h2>
<h3 id="do-we-have-any-additional-points-to-discuss">Do we have any additional points to discuss?</h3>
<h2 id="review-of-procedures">Review of Procedures</h2>
<h2 id="review-of-new-proposals-since-the-september23-meeting-in-rome-2023-09-131415">Review of new Proposals (since the September’23 meeting in Rome, 2023-09-13/14/15)</h2>
<h3 id="appendix-f-doesnt-cater-for-strings.-appendix-f-doesn-t-cater-for-strings--314">[314] Appendix F doesn’t cater for strings. (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/appendix-f-doesn-t-cater-for-strings-#contribution-314">appendix-f-doesn-t-cater-for-strings- #314</a>)</h3>
<p>2023-11-12 13:26:28 - albert</p>
<p>Ask him to volunteer tests (Action: UH)</p>
<h3 id="string-store-and-fetch-string-store-and-fetch-313">[313] String store and fetch (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/string-store-and-fetch#contribution-313">string-store-and-fetch #313</a>)</h3>
<p>2023-11-12 13:12:55 - albert</p>
<p>Write an answer containing the criticisms (in particular, buffer overflow safety). If he wants to go on with a proposal, it needs to be more in standard terminology and with standard stack effect comments. Alternatively, add a package to theforth.net (Action: UH)</p>
<h3 id="new-words-latest-name-and-latest-name-in-new-words-latest-name-and-latest-name-in-311">[311] New words: latest-name and latest-name-in (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/new-words-latest-name-and-latest-name-in#contribution-311">new-words-latest-name-and-latest-name-in #311</a>)</h3>
<p>2023-10-23 01:13:22 - ruv</p>
<p>Discussion. Do we need LATEST-NAME-IN? Make it formal. (Action: ruv)</p>
<h3 id="fix-stack-comments-for-nr-and-nr-fix-stack-comments-for-n-r-and-nr--307">[307] Fix stack comments for N&gt;R and NR&gt; (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/fix-stack-comments-for-n-r-and-nr-#contribution-307">fix-stack-comments-for-n-r-and-nr- #307</a>)</h3>
<p>2023-09-13 12:09:40 - LeonWagner</p>
<p>Fix the n that’s there (should be +n), then make it formal (Action: AE)</p>
<h2 id="review-of-new-contributions-since-the-september23-meeting-in-rome-2023-09-131415">Review of new Contributions (since the September’23 meeting in Rome, 2023-09-13/14/15)</h2>
<h3 id="cfvs-after-committee-decision-317">[317] CfVs after committee decision (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/meta-discussion#contribution-317">#317</a>)</h3>
<p>2023-12-02 10:43:31 - AntonErtl</p>
<p>Do an issue on github (Action: AE)</p>
<h3 id="proposals-and-the-document-316">[316] Proposals and the document (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/meta-discussion#contribution-316">#316</a>)</h3>
<p>2023-12-01 18:08:40 - AntonErtl</p>
<p>Do an issue on github (Action: AE)</p>
<h3 id="word-and-the-text-interpreter-core-word-315">[315] WORD and the text interpreter (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/WORD#contribution-315">core, WORD #315</a>)</h3>
<p>2023-11-27 18:02:20 - AntonErtl</p>
<p>Discussion does not indicate a preference for changing the standard.</p>
<p>Still, Ruvim wants to do a proposal. (Action: ruv)</p>
<p>Alternatively, make WORD obsolescent. (Action: SP)</p>
<h3 id="traverse-wordlist-must-not-expose-the-current-definition-tools-traverse-wordlist-312">[312] TRAVERSE-WORDLIST must not expose the current definition (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/tools/TRAVERSE-WORDLIST#contribution-312">tools, TRAVERSE-WORDLIST #312</a>)</h3>
<p>2023-10-23 10:04:08 - ruv</p>
<p>Acceptingly close it. Write an issue on github to allow that workflow. (Action: ruv).</p>
<h3 id="why-do-we-use-n-and-not-u-in-the-stack-diagram-for-nr-and-nr-fix-stack-comments-for-n-r-and-nr--310">[310] Why do we use +n and not u in the stack diagram for n&gt;r and nr&gt; (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/fix-stack-comments-for-n-r-and-nr-#contribution-310">fix-stack-comments-for-n-r-and-nr- #310</a>)</h3>
<p>2023-09-23 01:06:43 - ruv</p>
<p>Look at +n vs. u in other words. (Action: ruv)</p>
<h3 id="a-better-approach-for-synonym-wording-tighten-the-specification-of-synonym-version-1--309">[309] A better approach for SYNONYM wording (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/tighten-the-specification-of-synonym-version-1-#contribution-309">tighten-the-specification-of-synonym-version-1- #309</a>)</h3>
<p>2023-09-22 17:06:27 - ruv</p>
<p>Make another proposal based on discussions about this proposal (Action: ruv)</p>
<h2 id="how-do-we-proceed-with-the-standardization-effort">How do we proceed with the standardization effort?</h2>
<ul>
<li>What can we improve?</li>
<li>What are our mid term plans?</li>
<li>A Forth 2022/2023 snapshot?</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="date-of-next-meeting-5-mineuroforth-2024">Date of next meeting (5 min)EuroForth-2024?</h2>
<p>Another Interim Meeting on 2024-05-24T14:00Z</p>
<p>On that meeting, start contributions with contribution 318 (contributions also include proposals).</p>
<p>Euroforth ideally September 27-29 (Forth200x Sep 25-27)</p>
<h2 id="miscellaneous">miscellaneous</h2>
<h3 id="dealing-with-small-changes-in-the-document">Dealing with small changes in the document</h3>
