# Forth-200x interim Meeting 2024-06-21T14:00Z

##  Welcome / Participants (10 min)

* AE Anton Ertl
* BP Bernd Paysan
* KM Krishna Myneni
* LW Leon Wagner
* ruv Ruvim
* UH Ulrich Hoffmann

##  Agreement on the agenda (5 min)
    * Do we have any additional points to discuss?  

##  Review of Procedures (5 min)

## Discussion of Action items from the last meetings.

### [2024-02-16](http://forth200x.org/meetings/2024-02-16-notes.html)

#### Done (for details look at the Notes linked above):

* [314]
* [313]
* [311]
* [307]
* [317]
* [316]
* [315] Done: ruv
* [312] [Github issue](https://github.com/GeraldWodni/forth-standard.org/issues/58)

#### Not done:

* [315] Action: SP
* [310] Action: ruv
* [309] Action: ruv

### [2023 Rome](http://forth200x.org/meetings/2023-09-13-notes.html)

#### Done

* N>R NR> stack comments
* [307]
* [306]
* [299]
* [291]
* [286]
* [269]
* [252] Followup: Action: ruv
* [251]
* [249]
* [220]
* [215]
* [214]
* [210]
* [184]
* [163]
* [148]
* [146]
* [114]
* [73]
* [65]
* [63] committee reply done, other action not done
* [32]
* [25]
* [22]
* Memory Access
* Recognizers

#### Not Done:

* [277] [276] Editing
* [275] Action: AE
* [272] Needs more flexibility in CfV choices.  Action: GW
* [250] Editing
* [206] Action: UH
* [292] Action: ruv. Action: AE
* [129] Action: AE
* [122] Action: GW
* [113] Action: UH
* [94] Action: AE
* [90] Action: AE
* [75] Action: AE
* [71] Action: LW
* [63] committee reply done, other action not done. Action: GW
* [60] Action: AE
* [34] Action: AE
* [29] Action: AE
* [26] Action: AE
* [20] Action: AE




## Review of new Proposals and Contributions (since the September'23 meeting in Rome, 2023-09-13/14/15) (60 min)  

see [https://forth-standard.org/proposals](https://forth-standard.org/proposals) and [https://forth-standard.org/contributions](https://forth-standard.org/contributions)
    
### Formal

#### [311] New words: latest-name and latest-name-in ([new-words-latest-name-and-latest-name-in #311](/proposals/new-words-latest-name-and-latest-name-in#contribution-311))
2023-10-23 01:13:22 - ruv

Move to CfV; maybe extend reference implementation.  Action: ruv

#### [307] Fix stack comments for N&gt;R and NR&gt; ([fix-stack-comments-for-n-r-and-nr- #307](/proposals/fix-stack-comments-for-n-r-and-nr-#contribution-307))
2023-09-13 12:09:40 - LeonWagner

Go to committee vote.  Action: AE

#### [291] Obsolescence for SAVE-INPUT and RESTORE-INPUT ([obsolescence-for-save-input-and-restore-input #291](/proposals/obsolescence-for-save-input-and-restore-input#contribution-291))
2023-03-02 19:04:49 - ruv

Go to CfV when the CfV system is flexible enough.  Action: GW  Followup: ruv

#### [252] Exclude zero from the data types that are identifiers ([exclude-zero-from-the-data-types-that-are-identifiers #252](/proposals/exclude-zero-from-the-data-types-that-are-identifiers#contribution-252))
2022-08-13 23:24:52 - ruv

Prepare new version and go to CfV.  Action: ruv

#### [251] Clarification for execution token ([clarification-for-execution-token #251](/proposals/clarification-for-execution-token#contribution-251))
2022-08-13 20:16:29 - ruv

Further discussion.  Action: AE, ruv

#### [249] Revert rewording the term &quot;execution token&quot; ([revert-rewording-the-term-execution-token- #249](/proposals/revert-rewording-the-term-execution-token-#contribution-249))
2022-08-12 14:18:35 - ruv

Further discussion.  Action: AE, ruv

#### [214] Better wording for &quot;data field&quot; term ([better-wording-for-data-field-term #214](/proposals/better-wording-for-data-field-term#contribution-214))
2021-09-14 08:55:49 - ruv

Accept.  Action: UH

#### [206] PLACE +PLACE ([place-place #206](/proposals/place-place#contribution-206))
2021-07-30 11:19:29 - UlrichHoffmann

Action: UH

#### [184] EMIT and non-ASCII values ([emit-and-non-ascii-values #184](/proposals/emit-and-non-ascii-values#contribution-184))
2021-04-03 15:34:40 - AntonErtl

Action: AE

#### [163] Tick and undefined execution semantics ([tick-and-undefined-execution-semantics #163](/proposals/tick-and-undefined-execution-semantics#contribution-163))
2020-10-29 00:28:43 - ruv

Further discussion. Action: AE, ruv

#### [148] OPTIONAL IEEE 754 BINARY FLOATING-POINT WORD SET ([optional-ieee-754-binary-floating-point-word-set #148](/proposals/optional-ieee-754-binary-floating-point-word-set#contribution-148))
2020-08-21 21:03:51 - KrishnaMyneni

Retract: Action: KM

#### [114] Case insensitivity ([case-insensitivity #114](/proposals/case-insensitivity#contribution-114))
2019-09-06 18:27:48 - AntonErtl

Action: AE


#### [73] Case sensitivity ([case-sensitivity #73](/proposals/case-sensitivity#contribution-73))
2018-11-03 13:15:53 - ruv

Action: ruv

#### [60] Tighten the specification of SYNONYM (version 1) ([tighten-the-specification-of-synonym-version-1- #60](/proposals/tighten-the-specification-of-synonym-version-1-#contribution-60))
2018-06-08 10:09:18 - GerryJackson

Ask Gerry Jackson what to do.  Action: UH


### Informal

#### [345] Allow the text interpreter to use `WORD` and the pictured numeric output ([allow-the-text-interpreter-to-use-word-and-the-pictured-numeric-output #345](/proposals/allow-the-text-interpreter-to-use-word-and-the-pictured-numeric-output#contribution-345))
2024-06-20 12:04:57 - ruv

Provide test cases and results for different systems.  Action: ruv

#### [344] Support for single line comments during `evaluate` ([support-for-single-line-comments-during-evaluate- #344](/proposals/support-for-single-line-comments-during-evaluate-#contribution-344))
2024-06-17 20:47:11 - ruv

Discuss it at the next meeting

#### [343] Special memory access words ([special-memory-access-words #343](/proposals/special-memory-access-words#contribution-343))
2024-06-14 15:18:23 - AntonErtl

Discuss it at the next meeting

##  How do we proceed with the standardization effort?
    
*   What can we improve?
*   What are our mid term plans?
*   A Forth 2022/2023 snapshot?
*   ...
    
We ran out of time here.
    
##  Date of next meeting (5 min)

September 25-27, 2024 in Newcastle Upon Tyne, 27.-29. September 2024

##  miscellaneous

