# Minutes of the 2025-07-31 meeting on recognizers

## Attendance

* M. Anton Ertl
* Gerald Wodni
* Leon Wagner
* Stephen Pelc (late)
* Ruvim (very late)

## Items

We discussed the following items from the board.  Only the first one was moved to done, the others stayed for the next meeting (just before EuroForth).

### Common options (not related to the Forth language itself)

Decision:

Any such features should not be the main focus of the recognizer proposal.  If they fall out of features needed for Forth, that's ok.

We moved this item to Done.

### Do we accept a separate getter and setter for the perceptor?

The participants of the meeting added two other options:

* variable-based
* value-based

### Do we agree that a recognizer returns `0` on unsuccess?

Leon Wagner and Stephen Pelc do not agree: `EXECUTE`ing the result is easier than checking.  Anton Ertl thinks that either option is acceptable, but has a slight preference for 0.

### A recognizer for local variables

Forth-94 has not specified whether FIND should find the visible locals, and some systems do it magically in FIND (Gforth, VFX), while others do it in the text interpreter (SwiftForth).

The recognizer proposal defines internals of the text interpreter, and on some systems (Gforth) even the internals of REC-NT (the replacement of FIND).  We should take this opportunity to define how visible locals are recognized.  There are two options:

* In the recognizer sequence before REC-NT (the FIND replacement)

* In REC-NT before searching the search order.

Another question is how the locals recognizer is enabled and disabled (if at all), or if it automatically does not recognize anything when there are no visible locals.

Discussions of all concerned are necessary, but not everybody was present.

Maybe a workshop at the meeting in Hamburg?

### The question is whether to recognize locals magically in REC-NT, or as a separate recognizer that is explicit in the recognizer sequence before REC-NT.

With the non-standardization of all words that consume a translator, the translator returned by a recognizer becomes an opaque token.

Given that, it would be more convenient if the word defined by `TRANSLATE:` has the stack effect `( -- translator )`, where `translator` is the opaque token for the translator.  As a result, one would then write, e.g., `translate-num` instead of `['] translate-num` when defining a recognizer that returns a translate-num.

Opinions from all concerned are necessary.



