## Forth200x meeting 2025-09-10..2025-09-12

### Participants

- Welcome
- Determine the persons present / online

* Andrew Read (role?, from 2025-09-11 11:30))
* Anton Ertl AE (notetaker)
* Bernd Paysan BP (from 2025-09-10 15:15)
* ?Bill Stoddart (observer)
* Francois Laagel FL
* Gerald Wodni GW
* Leon Wagner LW
* Peter Knaggs PK
* Ruvim Pinka RP (remote)
* Stephen Pelc SP
* Ulrich Hoffmann UH (chair)
* ?Willem Botha WB (remote, from 2024-09-25 15:28BST)

Move to Ex-Members:

Brad Rodriguez,
Howerd Oakford,
?Jermaine Davis,
Krishna Myneni


- Meeting transcript

Notes taken by AE

### Review of the minutes

Vote #37

### Review of Procedures

- How do we organize this meeting?

First memory access, then Recognizers, then anything else.

Votes are closed at the end of the session

### Reports

#### Chair

Speeding up is not working

#### Editor

There is a 2020.1 document that reflects the work up to 2020.

#### Technical Officer

Currently the following domains are owned by Peter Knaggs:

* forth200x.org
* euroforth.org

The following domain is owned by Gerald Wodni:

* forth-standard.org

These domains' ownership shall be transferred to Wodni & Pelc
GmbH. Wodni & Pelc GmbH might decide to keep the technical ownership
and give the administrative ownership away to a Forth Association in
the future.


Peter Knaggs passes the domains forth200x.org and euroforth.org to
  Wodni and Pelc GmbH., and later possibly to Forth e.V.

  forth200x.org (currently Peter Knaggs)
  euroforth.org (currently Peter Knaggs)
  forth-standard.org (currently Gerald Wodni)

#### Treasurer

  Nothing to report

### Election/Confirmation of officers

Next time 2028.

### Proposals

#### r1531 Special Memory access words:

Note that SwiftForth has w+! etc. and go to CfV.  (Action: AE)

#### Recognizers

Mention some possibly contentious issues.

Long discussion about recognizer sequences: nesting, deferred words,
is `forth-recognize` deferred, are recognizer sequences growable or
shrinkable.

Standardize translate-nt translate-num translate-dnum translate-float,
not scan-translate-string.

The standard already makes the true value of `state`
implementation-defined, so a system can do postpone state with -2 in
`state`.  A program defining a text interpreter would still have to
use a separate variable for postpone mode, though.

Mention `interpreting`, `compiling`, `postponing` in the rationale,
don't standardize them.  `Evaluate` is now generic enough to usually
avoid the need for a user-defined recognizer.

Standardize: rec-nt rec-num (single and double and chars) rec-float

`rec-local` is the right name instead of `rec-locals`.

translate-num ( x -- ?type )

Example:

s" 123" rec-forth ( translation ) interpreting

Types:

translation: The result of a recognizer; the input of interpreting,
compiling, and postponing; it's a semi-opaque type that consists of a
rectype (to be renamed) at the top of the data stack and additional
data on various stacks below.

Words:

rec-name ( c-addr u -- translation ) 
rec-local ( c-addr u -- translation ) (if present)
rec-number ( c-addr u -- translation ) (for single cells, double cells, number prefixes, char)
rec-float ( c-addr u -- translation ) (recognize numbers without "e" or not)
rec-none ( c-addr u -- translation )
recs (formerly known as .recognizers)
rec-forth ( c-addr u -- translation ) (deferred word) formerly forth-recognize
rec-sequence: ( xt1 .. xtu u "name" -- )
translate:  formerly rectype:
translate-cell ( x -- translation ) ( -- rectype ) ( x -- x rectype ) formerly translate-num
translate-dcell ( xd -- translation ) formerly translate-dnum
translate-float ( r -- translation ) 
translate-name ( nt -- translation ) ( -- rectype ) formerly translate-nt
translate-none ( -- translation ) formerly r:fail notfound
get-recs ( xt -- xt_u ... xt_1 u )
set-recs ( xt_u ... xt_1 u xt -- )

Vote #40

These words will form a new wordset and get their own chapter in the
document.


#### Review of contributions:

## [311] New words: latest-name and latest-name-in ([new-words-latest-name-and-latest-name-in #311](/proposals/new-words-latest-name-and-latest-name-in#contribution-311))
2023-10-23 01:13:22 - ruv

Please refer to the most recent *visible* definiton in the normative
text.  (Action: ruv)
Proceed to CfV (Action: AE)

## [307] Fix stack comments for N&gt;R and NR&gt; ([fix-stack-comments-for-n-r-and-nr- #307](/proposals/fix-stack-comments-for-n-r-and-nr-#contribution-307))
2023-09-13 12:09:40 - LeonWagner

Updated proposal to use u.  Move to committee vote #39.  Vote is open.

## [291] Obsolescence for SAVE-INPUT and RESTORE-INPUT ([obsolescence-for-save-input-and-restore-input #291](/proposals/obsolescence-for-save-input-and-restore-input#contribution-291))
2023-03-02 19:04:49 - ruv

Make a CfV (Action: AE)

## [252] Exclude zero from the data types that are identifiers ([exclude-zero-from-the-data-types-that-are-identifiers #252](/proposals/exclude-zero-from-the-data-types-that-are-identifiers#contribution-252))
2022-08-13 23:24:52 - ruv

Make not just changes in formalities, but also in prose.  (Action: PK,ruv)


## [251] Clarification for execution token ([clarification-for-execution-token #251](/proposals/clarification-for-execution-token#contribution-251))
2022-08-13 20:16:29 - ruv

Write up your objections (Action: AE); others can also comment.

## [249] Revert rewording the term &quot;execution token&quot; ([revert-rewording-the-term-execution-token- #249](/proposals/revert-rewording-the-term-execution-token-#contribution-249))
2022-08-12 14:18:35 - ruv

Withdaw it (Done: ruv)

## [206] PLACE +PLACE ([place-place #206](/proposals/place-place#contribution-206))
2021-07-30 11:19:29 - UlrichHoffmann

Update the proposal and go to CfV (Action:UH)

## [184] EMIT and non-ASCII values ([emit-and-non-ascii-values #184](/proposals/emit-and-non-ascii-values#contribution-184))
2021-04-03 15:34:40 - AntonErtl

Go to CfV (Action: AE)

## [163] Tick and undefined execution semantics ([tick-and-undefined-execution-semantics #163](/proposals/tick-and-undefined-execution-semantics#contribution-163))
2020-10-29 00:28:43 - ruv

retracted (Done: ruv)

## [148] OPTIONAL IEEE 754 BINARY FLOATING-POINT WORD SET ([optional-ieee-754-binary-floating-point-word-set #148](/proposals/optional-ieee-754-binary-floating-point-word-set#contribution-148))
2020-08-21 21:03:51 - KrishnaMyneni

retired (Done: AE)



## [114] Case insensitivity ([case-insensitivity #114](/proposals/case-insensitivity#contribution-114))
2019-09-06 18:27:48 - AntonErtl

## [90] Revise Rationale of Buffer: ([revise-rationale-of-buffer- #90](/proposals/revise-rationale-of-buffer-#contribution-90))
2019-07-06 15:45:25 - AntonErtl

## [73] Case sensitivity ([case-sensitivity #73](/proposals/case-sensitivity#contribution-73))
2018-11-03 13:15:53 - ruv

### Adjourn

#### Date of next meeting

Interim online meeting 2026-02-13 15:00 UTC

Regular meeting two days before the next EuroForth
