# 2026-04-17 meeting

## Attendance

* Anton Ertl
* Bernd Paysan
* Gerald Wodni
* Krishna Myneni
* Ruv
* Ulrich Hoffmann

### Interaction between "NDCS" and recognizers

Through `name>interpret` and `name>compile`, used in `translate-name`
(see reference implementation).

### How to look into a recognizer sequence that is not `rec-forth`

Various implementors report what they have (most don't have that feature).

### Split out `rec-char` from `rec-number`?

For the programmers separate recognizers are easier.  For system
implementors that implement recognizer sequences, they do not care
much.

### Discussion of locals recognition

Should this be included in `rec-name` or split out as `rec-local`?
This needs feedback from system implementors who are not present in
this meeting.

### Bootstrapping the interpreter

The reference implementation does not have that.

### Dealing with prefixes

There could be a `rec-table` that recognizes everything that has a
1-character prefix (usually installed behind `rec-name`), and
dispatches the actual recognizer based on the prefix: characters
(`'`), base prefixes for numbers, strings (`"`), xts (in Gforth
starting with \`), etc.  But including this in the standard is not
on the table.  Bernd Paysan thinks about providing such a recognizer
as an example.

### What is being planned?

Get consensus among the committee members in the next online meeting
about the proposal that should go to CfV (in particular, resolving the
locals issue).  Then the CfV should be made for at least 4 weeks
during the summer, and then we have some feedback from the wider
community for deciding on including the proposal in the standard at
the next in-person meeting.

## Next meeting

* informational meeting 2026-05-22 16:00 UTC
* proper meeting 2026-06-26 14:00 UTC
