# 2026-02-13 meeting on recognizers

## Attendance

* M. Anton Ertl
* Bernd Paysan
* Gerald Wodni
* Krishna Myneni
* Leon Wagner
* Ruv
* Stephen Pelc
* Ullrich Hoffmann

## Recognizers

Presentation of the recognizer proposal, reference implementation and
tests.

Discussion about various topics, including:

Do we want to standardize a way to discard (drop) a translation.  One
option would be to require a discard-xt translation action to
`translate:`, and this option cannot be added later.  The committee
decided against this option.  There are the options of using `depth`
and `fdepth`, or using `catch` and `throw`, which can be used for
defining `drop-translation` when needed.

Should users need to use `action-of rec-forth get-recs`, or should
system implementors required to also support `' rec-forth
get-recs`.  Consensus: The former.

Should locals be recognized by `rec-name`.  No obvious consensus, poll
in Mattermost.

## Next meeting

2026-04-17 14:00 UTC

