<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html><head></head><body>
<h1>Action List for 2008 standards meeting</h1>

At the Forth 200<em>x</em> standards meeting held between the
25 and 26 of September 2008 at the Technische Universit&auml;t Wien,
Vienna, Austria the following actions where agreed:
<dl>
<dt><b>Willem Botha</b></dt>
<dd>No actions.<p></dd>

<dt><b>Federico de Ceballos</b></dt>
<dd><ol>
	<li> <b>0 for NIL</b> proposal to be drafted into an RfC.

	<li> <b>memory access</b> proposal, on 16-/32-bit signed/unsigned
		code>!</code> and <code>@</code> for integers, bytes, octets.
		Federico to work with AE to bring this to a RfC.
	</ol>
<p></dd>

<dt><b>M. Anton Ertl</b></dt>
<dd><ol>
	<li> Work with SP and PK regarding the text relating to the
		 relationship between <code>KEY</code>, <code>KEY?</code>,
		 <code>EKEY</code> and <code>EKEY?</code>, in particular
		 the persistence of the value returned.

	<li> <b>fp-stack</b> proposal was accepted with minor modifications.
		 Integrate into the standard document.

	<li> <b>2value</b> proposal requires redrafting in light of the
		 redrafing of <code>to</code>.  Anton to lease with the author.
		 (As the proposal has never been posted to the email discussion
		 group the identaty of the original author is unknown.)

	<li> <b>directories</b> was referred for futher discussion.

	<li> <b>f-value</b> proposal, as with <b>2value</b> proposal this
		 requires redrafting in light of the redrafting of <code>to</code>.
		 Anton to lease with the author. (Also not published on the
		 eMail list.)

	<li> <b>0 for NIL</b> proposal, Anton to assist FC bring this
		 to a RfC.

	<li> <b>RFI0007</b>. Work with PK to integrate the RFI into the
		 standards document.

	<li> <b>RFI</b>.  Work with PK to review the existing RFIs with
		 a view to developing RfCs.
	</ol>
<p></dd>

<dt><b>Andrew Haley</b></dt>
<dd>No actions<p></dd>

<dt><b>Ulrich Hoffmann</b></dt>
<dd><ol>
	<li> Review potential for a meeting to be held in conjunction with
		 the next
		 <a href="http://www.forth-ev.de/calendar/event.php?eid=20081117002417967">Tagung
		 der Forth Gesellschaft</a> (27-29 March) 2009 in Neuenkirchen,
		 Germany.
	</ol>
<p></dd>

<dt><b>Peter Knaggs</b></dt>
<dd><ol>
	<li> Work with SP and AE regarding the text relating to the
		 relationship between <code>KEY</code>, <code>KEY?</code>,
		 <code>EKEY</code> and <code>EKEY?</code>, in particular
		 the persistence of the value returned.

	<li> Fix &quot;school of though&quot; in rational for <code>BEGIN-STRUCTURE</code>.

	<li> <b>escaped-strings</b> proposal, take forward to CfV after
		 a minor correction to the text.

	<li> <b>synonym</b> proposal, take forward to CfV after a revision to
		 the ambiguous conditions.  (With SP)

	<li> <b>RFI0007</b>. Work with AE to integrate the RFI into the
		 standards document.

	<li> Obsolescent Word set. Develop an RfD to move the obsolescent words
		 into a non-normative appendix.

	<li> <b>RFI</b>.  Work with PK to review the existing RFIs with
		 a view to developing RfCs.

	<li> Work with SP to review L10N papers with a view to developing a
		 localisation wordset RfD, with the potential of integrating the
		 <b>xchar</b> proposal from BP and AE.
	</ol>
<p></dd>

<dt><b>Bernd Paysan</b></dt>
<dd><ol>
	<li> <b>Cross Compiler</b>.  Work with LW and SP to review
		 Elisabeth Rather's Cross Compiler proposal an develop
		 a RfD.
	<li> Review L10N papers with a view to incorperating the
		 <b>xchar</b> proposal into a localisation wordset RfD.
	</ol>
<p></dd>


<dt><b>Stephen Pelc</b></dt>
<dd><ol>
	<li> Work with AE and PK regarding the text relating to the
		 relationship between <code>KEY</code>, <code>KEY?</code>,
		 <code>EKEY</code> and <code>EKEY?</code>, in particular
		 the persistence of the value returned.

	<li> <b>synonym</b> proposal, take forward to CfV after a revision to
		 the ambiguous conditions.  (With PK)

	<li> <b>extended-locals</b> proposal.  Review the <code>{</code>
		 syntax in light of discussion with LW.

	<li> <b>Cross Compiler</b>.  Work with LW and BP to review
		 Elisabeth Rather's Cross Compiler proposal an develop
		 a RfD.

	<li> Work with PK to review L10N papers with a view to developing a
		 localisation wordset RfD, with the potential of integrating the
		 <b>xchar</b> proposal from BP and AE.
	</ol>
<p></dd>


<dt><b>Bill Stoddart</b></dt>
<dd>No actions.<p></dd>


<dt><b>Willi Stricker</b></dt>
<dd>No actions.<p></dd>


<dt><b>Leon Wagner</b></dt>
<dd><ol>
	<li> <b>Cross Compiler</b>.  Work with SP and BP to review
		 Elisabeth Rather's Cross Compiler proposal an develop
		 a RfD.
	</ol>
<p></dd>
</dl>

</body></html>