<h1 id="forth-standards-meeting-draft-1-agenda">Forth Standards Meeting Draft (1) Agenda</h1>
<p>14-15 Sept 2022 15:00-19:00 UTC</p>
<p>Online - for latest details see <a href="https://chat.forth-standard.org">chat.forth-standard.org</a></p>
<p>See also: <a href="https://euro.theforth.net">euro.theforth.net</a>, <a href="https://forth-standard.org">forth-standard.org</a></p>
<p><strong>Wednesday, 14th September (UTC)</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>14:30 Get together - Setup your gear and smalltalk</li>
<li>14:50 Call to order - get ready (please be online by now)</li>
<li>15:00 Session 3</li>
<li>17:00 Bio Break</li>
<li>17:15 Session 4</li>
<li>19:00 End of main session</li>
<li>Workshops</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Thursday, 15th September (UTC)</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Workshops</li>
<li>14:30 Get together - Setup your gear and smalltalk</li>
<li>14:50 Call to order - get ready (please be online by now)</li>
<li>15:00 Session 5</li>
<li>17:00 Bio Break</li>
<li>17:15 Session 6</li>
<li>19:00 End of Standards Meeting</li>
</ul>
<p>Friday: euroForth conference</p>
<hr />
<h2 id="agenda">Agenda</h2>
<p>2022-09-08</p>
<h2 id="participants">Participants</h2>
<ol type="1">
<li>Welcome</li>
<li>Determine the persons present</li>
<li>Meeting transcript</li>
</ol>
<h2 id="review-of-procedures">Review of Procedures</h2>
<ol type="1">
<li><p>How we organize this meeting</p></li>
<li><p>Progress of current work</p>
<ul>
<li>Draft Document update (last draft is from 2019)</li>
<li>Are we ready for a new Standard snapshop (Forth2023)?</li>
<li>How can we speed up our work?</li>
<li>How we can better serve the Forth community?<br />
</li>
<li>How can we encourage Forthers to submit proposals?</li>
</ul>
<p>Pending Topics include:<br />
with some progress:</p>
<ul>
<li>recognizers</li>
<li>multi-threaded multitasking with little progress:</li>
<li>memory access (16/32/64-Bit, RAM/ROM)</li>
<li>reduce ambiguous conditions</li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>What are addtional topics for future standardisation?</p></li>
</ol>
<h2 id="reports">Reports</h2>
<ol type="1">
<li>Chair</li>
<li>Editor</li>
<li>Technical</li>
<li>Treasurer</li>
</ol>
<h2 id="electionconfirmation-of-officers">Election/Confirmation of officers</h2>
<p>If you would like to stand for election, please suggest your name and please shortly introduce yourself.</p>
<p>We have to elect (by secret ballot) a Chair, Editor, Technical Officer and a Treasurer.</p>
<ol type="1">
<li>Chair (currently Ulrich Hoffman)</li>
<li>Editor (currently Peter Knaggs)</li>
<li>Technical (currently Gerald Wodni)</li>
<li>Treasurer (currently Bernd Paysan)</li>
</ol>
<h2 id="review-of-proposalscontributions">Review of Proposals/Contributions</h2>
<h3 id="proposals-from-forth-standard.orgproposals">Proposals from <a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals">forth-standard.org/proposals</a></h3>
<h4 id="proposals-in-the-state-formal">Proposals in the state <em>formal</em></h4>
<ol type="1">
<li>Specify that 0 THROW pops the 0 (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/specify-that-0-throw-pops-the-0#reply-794">https://forth-standard.org/proposals/specify-that-0-throw-pops-the-0#reply-794</a>) 2022-02-19 19:04:45 - AntonErtl</li>
</ol>
<h4 id="proposals-in-the-state-voting">Proposals in the state <em>voting</em></h4>
<ol type="1">
<li>PLACE +PLACE (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/place-place#reply-745">https://forth-standard.org/proposals/place-place#reply-745</a>) 2021-09-08 21:15:27 - UlrichHoffmann</li>
</ol>
<h4 id="proposals-in-the-state-informal">Proposals in the state <em>informal</em></h4>
<p>We have a lots of informal proposals with open status (moved to an appendix at the end for clarity).<br />
We should discuss we handle them best.</p>
<h3 id="contributions-on-forth-standard.org-since-last-meeting">Contributions on <a href="https://forth-standard.org">forth-standard.org</a> since last meeting</h3>
<p>There are a lot of contributions since the interim March meeting. Find them in the appendix.</p>
<h2 id="workshop-topics">Workshop Topics</h2>
<p>Workshops are topics for discussion outside the formal meeting. We will collect topics on the fly during the meeting’s discussions.</p>
<h2 id="consideration-of-proposals-cfv-votes">Consideration of proposals + CfV votes</h2>
<ul>
<li>Which proposals should go for vote?</li>
<li>Any topics for proposal in the pipiline?</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="workshop-reports">Workshop reports</h2>
<p>Let’s collect the results of our workshops.</p>
<h2 id="matters-arising">Matters arising</h2>
<p>Whats up?</p>
<h2 id="any-other-business">Any other business</h2>
<p>Something else?</p>
<h2 id="date-of-next-meeting">Date of next meeting</h2>
<p>When shall we three meet again? In thunder, lightning, or in rain?</p>
<hr />
<h1 id="appendix-to-review-of-proposalscontributions">Appendix to <em>Review of Proposals/Contributions</em></h1>
<h2 id="proposals-in-the-state-informal-most-recent-first">Proposals in the state <em>informal</em> (most recent first)</h2>
<ol type="1">
<li><p>Pronounciations (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/pronounciations#contribution-261">pronounciations #261</a>) 2022-08-19 18:00:05 - AntonErtl</p></li>
<li><p>Exclude zero from the data types that are identifiers (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/exclude-zero-from-the-data-types-that-are-identifiers#contribution-252">exclude-zero-from-the-data-types-that-are-identifiers #252</a>) 2022-08-13 23:24:52 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Clarification for execution token (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/clarification-for-execution-token#contribution-251">clarification-for-execution-token #251</a>) 2022-08-13 20:16:29 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Formatting: spaces in data type symbols (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/formatting-spaces-in-data-type-symbols#contribution-250">formatting-spaces-in-data-type-symbols #250</a>) 2022-08-12 15:04:29 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Revert rewording the term “execution token” (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/revert-rewording-the-term-execution-token-#contribution-249">revert-rewording-the-term-execution-token- #249</a>) 2022-08-12 14:18:35 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Better wording for “Glossary notation” (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/better-wording-for-glossary-notation-#contribution-215">better-wording-for-glossary-notation- #215</a>) 2021-09-24 11:33:41 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Better wording for “data field” term (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/better-wording-for-data-field-term#contribution-214">better-wording-for-data-field-term #214</a>) 2021-09-14 08:55:49 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Tick and undefined execution semantics - 2 (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/tick-and-undefined-execution-semantics-2#contribution-212">tick-and-undefined-execution-semantics-2 #212</a>) 2021-09-08 10:15:49 - StephenPelc</p></li>
<li><p>EMIT and non-ASCII values (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/emit-and-non-ascii-values#contribution-184">emit-and-non-ascii-values #184</a>) 2021-04-03 15:34:40 - AntonErtl</p></li>
<li><p>Tick and undefined execution semantics (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/tick-and-undefined-execution-semantics#contribution-163">tick-and-undefined-execution-semantics #163</a>) 2020-10-29 00:28:43 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Common terminology for recognizers discurse and specifications (<a href="https://forth-standard.or/proposals/common-terminology-for-recognizers-discurse-and-specifications#contribution-161">common-terminology-for-recognizers-discurse-and-specifications #161</a>) 2020-09-07 13:56:43 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>minimalistic core API for recognizers (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/minimalistic-core-api-for-recognizers#reply-867">https://forth-standard.org/proposals/minimalistic-core-api-for-recognizers#reply-867</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>An alternative to the RECOGNIZER proposal (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/an-alternative-to-the-recognizer-proposal#reply-493">https://forth-standard.org/proposals/an-alternative-to-the-recognizer-proposal#reply-493</a>) 2020-09-05 15:09:39 AndrewHaley</p></li>
<li><p>Call for Vote - Ambiguous condition in 16.3.3 (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/call-for-vote-ambiguous-condition-in-16-3-3#reply-460">https://forth-standard.org/proposals/call-for-vote-ambiguous-condition-in-16-3-3#reply-460</a>) 2020-09-02 11:16:03 - StephenPelc</p></li>
<li><p>XML Forth Standard - migration from LaTeX to DocBook (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/xml-forth-standard-migration-from-latex-to-docbook#contribution-154">xml-forth-standard-migration-from-latex-to-docbook #154</a>) 2020-09-01 21:16:26 - GeraldWodni</p></li>
<li><p>Nestable Recognizer Sequences (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/nestable-recognizer-sequences#contribution-149">nestable-recognizer-sequences #149</a>) 2020-08-22 16:09:52 - AntonErtl</p></li>
<li><p>OPTIONAL IEEE 754 BINARY FLOATING-POINT WORD SET (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/optional-ieee-754-binary-floating-point-word-set#reply-420">https://forth-standard.org/proposals/optional-ieee-754-binary-floating-point-word-set#reply-420</a>) 2020-08-24 23:38:37 - KrishnaMyneni</p></li>
<li><p>Recognizer (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/recognizer#contribution-142">recognizer #142</a>) 2020-07-20 20:36:30 - BerndPaysan</p></li>
<li><p>Same name token for different words (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/same-name-token-for-different-words#contribution-136">same-name-token-for-different-words #136</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>Recognizer RfD rephrase 2020 (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/recognizer-rfd-rephrase-2020#contribution-131">recognizer-rfd-rephrase-2020 #131</a>)</p></li>
<li><p>NAME&gt;INTERPRET wording (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/name-interpret-wording#contribution-129">name-interpret-wording #129</a>) 2020-02-20 09:55:14 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Clarify FIND, more classic approach (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/clarify-find-more-classic-approach#reply-682">https://forth-standard.org/proposals/clarify-find-more-classic-approach#reply-682</a>) 2019-10-08 11:01:25 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Remove the “rules of FIND” (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/remove-the-rules-of-find-#reply-465">https://forth-standard.org/proposals/remove-the-rules-of-find-#reply-465</a>) 2019-09-12 09:09:51 - BerndPaysan</p></li>
<li><p>Case insensitivity (<a href="https://forth-standard.or/proposals/case-insensitivity#contribution-114">case-insensitivity #114</a>) 2019-09-06 18:27:48 - AntonErtl</p></li>
<li><p>CS-DROP (revised 2019-08-22) (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/cs-drop-revised-2019-08-22-#reply-471">https://forth-standard.org/proposals/cs-drop-revised-2019-08-22-#reply-471</a>) 2019-09-06 08:24:28 - UlrichHoffmann</p></li>
<li><p>Right-justified text output (<a href="https://forth-standard.or/proposals/right-justified-text-output#contribution-101">right-justified-text-output #101</a>) 2019-08-01 22:07:03 - mcondron</p></li>
<li><p>Executing compilation semantics (<a href="https://forth-standard.or/proposals/executing-compilation-semantics#contribution-94">executing-compilation-semantics #94</a>) 2019-07-12 04:16:14 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Revise Rationale of Buffer: (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/revise-rationale-of-buffer-#reply-247">https://forth-standard.org/proposals/revise-rationale-of-buffer-#reply-247</a>) 2019-07-06 15:45:25 AntonErtl</p></li>
<li><p>F&gt;R and FR&gt; to support dynamically-scoped floating point variables (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/f-r-and-fr-to-support-dynamically-scoped-floating-point-variables#contribution-75">f-r-and-fr-to-support-dynamically-scoped-floating-point-variables #75</a>) 2019-03-03 06:20:52 - kc5tja</p></li>
<li><p>Case sensitivity (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/case-sensitivity#contribution-73">case-sensitivity #73</a>) 2018-11-03 13:15:53 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Revised Proposal Process (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/revised-proposal-process#contribution-71">revised-proposal-process #71</a>) 2018-09-21 06:49:42 - PeterKnaggs</p></li>
<li><p>Multi-Tasking Proposal (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/multi-tasking-proposal#reply-186">https://forth-standard.org/proposals/multi-tasking-proposal#reply-186</a>) 2018-09-06 17:19:38 - AndrewHaley</p></li>
<li><p>CS-DROP (revised 2018-08-20) (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/cs-drop-revised-2018-08-20-#reply-302">https://forth-standard.org/proposals/cs-drop-revised-2018-08-20-#reply-302</a>) 2018-08-20 20:22:25 - UlrichHoffmann</p></li>
<li><p>S( “Request for Discussion” (revised 2018-08-16) (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/s-request-for-discussion-revised-2018-08-16-#contribution-65">s-request-for-discussion-revised-2018-08-16- #65</a>) 2018-08-17 16:27:53 - UlrichHoffmann</p></li>
<li><p>Let us adopt the Gerry Jackson test suite as part of Forth 200x (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/let-us-adopt-the-gerry-jackson-test-suite-as-part-of-forth-200x#contribution-63">let-us-adopt-the-gerry-jackson-test-suite-as-part-of-forth-200x #63</a>) 2018-07-10 14:38:46 - StephenPelc</p></li>
<li><p>Tighten the specification of SYNONYM (version 1) (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/tighten-the-specification-of-synonym-version-1-#contribution-60">tighten-the-specification-of-synonym-version-1- #60</a>) 2018-06-08 10:09:18 - GerryJackson</p></li>
<li><p>EXCEPTION LOCALs (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/exception-locals#contribution-36">exception-locals #36</a>) 2017-10-28 07:04:49 - AndrewRead</p></li>
<li><p>BL rationale is wrong (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/bl-rationale-is-wrong#contribution-34">bl-rationale-is-wrong #34</a>) 2017-10-25 11:35:46 - AntonErtl</p></li>
<li><p>The value of STATE should be restored (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/the-value-of-state-should-be-restored#contribution-32">the-value-of-state-should-be-restored #32</a>) 2017-09-03 11:07:49 - AlexDyachenko</p></li>
<li><p>Core-ext S"; should reference File-ext S"; (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/core-ext-s-should-reference-file-ext-s-#contribution-29">core-ext-s-should-reference-file-ext-s- #29</a>) 2017-04-16 08:03:17 - AntonErtl</p></li>
<li><p>Implementations requiring BOTH 32 bit single floats and 64 bit double floats. (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/implementations-requiring-both-32-bit-single-floats-and-64-bit-double-floats-#contribution-26">implementations-requiring-both-32-bit-single-floats-and-64-bit-double-floats- #26</a>) 2016-12-21 14:39:40 - zhtoor</p></li>
<li><p>Directory experiemental proposal (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/directory-experiemental-proposal#reply-59">https://forth-standard.org/proposals/directory-experiemental-proposal#reply-59</a>) 2016-12-12 15:42:57 - GeraldWodni</p></li>
<li><p>DEFER this not :-) (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/defer-this-not-#contribution-22">defer-this-not- #22</a>) 2016-09-02 16:14:36 - enoch</p></li>
<li><p>WLSCOPE – wordlists switching made easier (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/wlscope-wordlists-switching-made-easier#contribution-20">wlscope-wordlists-switching-made-easier #20</a>) 2016-06-18 04:19:03 - enoch</p></li>
</ol>
<h3 id="contributions-on-forth-standard.org-since-last-meeting-most-recent-first">Contributions on <a href="https://forth-standard.org">forth-standard.org</a> since last meeting (most recent first)</h3>
<ol type="1">
<li><p>Etymology of SYNONYM (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/tools/SYNONYM#contribution-267">tools, SYNONYM #267</a>) 2022-09-07 21:15:16 - AntonErtl</p></li>
<li><p>Support several versions of the standard in parallel (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/meta-discussion#contribution-266">#266</a>) 2022-09-07 11:41:37 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Bogus Test Case for SAVE-INPUT (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/SAVE-INPUT#contribution-265">core, SAVE-INPUT #265</a>) 2022-09-06 14:36:57 - flaagel</p></li>
<li><p>Incorrect Test Pattern (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/file/SOURCE-ID#contribution-264">file, SOURCE-ID #264</a>) 2022-09-06 14:26:04 - flaagel</p></li>
<li><p>Test Proposal (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/test-proposal#contribution-263">test-proposal #263</a>) 2022-08-28 19:24:27 - GeraldWodni</p></li>
<li><p>&gt;NUMBER Test Patterns (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/toNUMBER#contribution-262">core, toNUMBER #262</a>) 2022-08-28 11:10:27 - flaagel</p></li>
<li><p>Pronounciations (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/pronounciations#contribution-261">pronounciations #261</a>) 2022-08-19 18:00:05 - AntonErtl</p></li>
<li><p>Exception word set is not optional any more (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/exception#contribution-260">exception #260</a>) 2022-08-18 13:50:15 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Should QUIT propagate exceptions? (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/QUIT#contribution-259">core, QUIT #259</a>) 2022-08-18 12:09:37 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Pronounciation (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/xchar/PlusXDivSTRING#contribution-258">xchar, PlusXDivSTRING #258</a>) 2022-08-15 14:07:41 - AntonErtl</p></li>
<li><p>Pronounciation (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/xchar/MinusTRAILING-GARBAGE#contribution-257">xchar, MinusTRAILING-GARBAGE #257</a>) 2022-08-15 14:04:40 - AntonErtl</p></li>
<li><p>Pronounciation (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/double/DUless#contribution-256">double, DUless #256</a>) 2022-08-15 13:51:36 - AntonErtl</p></li>
<li><p>Pronounciation (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/float/FtoS#contribution-255">float, FtoS #255</a>) 2022-08-15 13:48:50 - AntonErtl</p></li>
<li><p>Pronounciation (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/float/StoF#contribution-254">float, StoF #254</a>) 2022-08-15 13:29:09 - AntonErtl</p></li>
<li><p>Pronounciation (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/xchar/XSTRINGMinus#contribution-253">xchar, XSTRINGMinus #253</a>) 2022-08-14 17:47:05 - AntonErtl</p></li>
<li><p>Exclude zero from the data types that are identifiers (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/exclude-zero-from-the-data-types-that-are-identifiers#contribution-252">exclude-zero-from-the-data-types-that-are-identifiers #252</a>) 2022-08-13 23:24:52 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Clarification for execution token (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/clarification-for-execution-token#contribution-251">clarification-for-execution-token #251</a>) 2022-08-13 20:16:29 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Formatting: spaces in data type symbols (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/formatting-spaces-in-data-type-symbols#contribution-250">formatting-spaces-in-data-type-symbols #250</a>) 2022-08-12 15:04:29 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Revert rewording the term “execution token” (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/revert-rewording-the-term-execution-token-#contribution-249">revert-rewording-the-term-execution-token- #249</a>) 2022-08-12 14:18:35 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Implementing COMPILE, via EXECUTE (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/COMPILEComma#contribution-248">core, COMPILEComma #248</a>) 2022-08-12 10:21:25 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Better API for multitasking (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/multi-tasking-proposal#contribution-247">multi-tasking-proposal #247</a>) 2022-07-18 00:03:00 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>Ambiguous conition for MARKER (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/MARKER#contribution-246">core, MARKER #246</a>) 2022-07-16 10:55:40 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>:NONAME Primitives (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/ColonNONAME#contribution-245">core, ColonNONAME #245</a>) 2022-07-05 16:22:37 - flaagel</p></li>
<li><p>Interactions with MARKER and KILL-TASK (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/multi-tasking-proposal#contribution-244">multi-tasking-proposal #244</a>) 2022-06-25 15:54:21 - kc5tja</p></li>
<li><p>Stack Sizes? (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/multi-tasking-proposal#contribution-243">multi-tasking-proposal #243</a>) 2022-06-25 15:38:51 - kc5tja</p></li>
<li><p>Round-robin vs Preemptive (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/proposals/multi-tasking-proposal#contribution-242">multi-tasking-proposal #242</a>) 2022-06-25 15:26:37 - kc5tja</p></li>
<li><p>Suggested reference implementation ROT (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/ROT#contribution-241">core, ROT #241</a>) 2022-06-23 21:59:20 - poggingfish</p></li>
<li><p>Suggested reference implementation R@ (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/RFetch#contribution-240">core, RFetch #240</a>) 2022-06-20 17:40:33 - poggingfish</p></li>
<li><p>Suggested reference implementation 2* (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/TwoTimes#contribution-239">core, TwoTimes #239</a>) 2022-06-20 17:34:22 - poggingfish</p></li>
<li><p>Same execution token (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/usage#contribution-238">usage #238</a>) 2022-06-13 22:40:38 - ruv</p></li>
<li><p>3.4.5 conflicts with [: … ;] (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/usage#contribution-237">usage #237</a>) 2022-05-11 12:45:05 - AtH</p></li>
<li><p>Trigonmetric Functions in Forth (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/float/FSIN#contribution-236">float, FSIN #236</a>) 2022-04-11 17:49:49 - OldSpoon</p></li>
<li><p>F.3 Seems in Error (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/testsuite#contribution-235">testsuite #235</a>) 2022-04-08 17:45:25 - JimPeterson</p></li>
<li><p>Possible Reference Implementation (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/ALIGN#contribution-234">core, ALIGN #234</a>) 2022-04-05 17:44:08 - JimPeterson</p></li>
<li><p>Possible Reference Implementation (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/MIN#contribution-233">core, MIN #233</a>) 2022-04-05 14:43:43 - JimPeterson</p></li>
<li><p>Possible Reference Implementation (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/VARIABLE#contribution-232">core, VARIABLE #232</a>) 2022-04-05 14:05:53 - JimPeterson</p></li>
<li><p>Double&gt; (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/MTimes#contribution-231">core, MTimes #231</a>) 2022-04-04 21:04:46 - AdrianMcMenamin</p></li>
<li><p>Question about final test (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/UMTimes#contribution-230">core, UMTimes #230</a>) 2022-04-02 21:58:34 - AdrianMcMenamin</p></li>
<li><p>inconsistent naming (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/search/FORTH-WORDLIST#contribution-229">search, FORTH-WORDLIST #229</a>) 2022-03-18 14:04:40 - LSchmidt</p></li>
<li><p>Accessing Remaining Data Stack? (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/locals#contribution-228">locals #228</a>) 2022-03-08 20:58:26 - JimPeterson</p></li>
<li><p>Contradiction With do-loops (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/locals#contribution-227">locals #227</a>) 2022-03-08 20:39:59 - JimPeterson</p></li>
<li><p>c-addr used in stack diagrams (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/Cq#contribution-226">core, Cq #226</a>) 2022-03-06 21:06:16 - LSchmidt</p></li>
<li><p>Using a . suffix to specify a double (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/double/DZeroEqual#contribution-225">double, DZeroEqual #225</a>) 2022-03-05 19:45:14 - flaagel</p></li>
<li><p>many tests appear to only assess interpretation semantics of test subjects (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/testsuite#contribution-224">testsuite #224</a>) 2022-02-27 21:23:05 - LSchmidt</p></li>
<li><p>chasing for dangling words referred to (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/testsuite#contribution-223">testsuite #223</a>) 2022-02-27 20:58:46 - LSchmidt</p></li>
<li><p>many tests appear to only assess interpretation semantics of test subjects (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/testsuite#contribution-222">testsuite #222</a>) 2022-02-27 18:43:57 - LSchmidt</p></li>
<li><p>I suggest to complete the test (<a href="https://forth-standard.org/standard/core/POSTPONE#contribution-221">core, POSTPONE #221</a>) 2022-02-27 14:26:42 - LSchmidt</p></li>
</ol>
