<h1 id="forth-200x-standards-committee-sep-6-8-2017-minutes">Forth 200x Standards Committee Sep 6-8 2017 Minutes</h1>
<h2 id="attendance">Attendance</h2>
<ul>
<li>Howerd Oakford (voted by the committee to be full member)</li>
<li>Sergey Baranov</li>
<li>Jermaine Davies (Observer)</li>
<li>Willem Botha</li>
<li>Stephen Pelc</li>
<li>Leon Wagner</li>
<li>Andrew Haley</li>
<li>Anton Ertl</li>
<li>Bernd Paysan</li>
<li>Gerald Wodni</li>
<li>Paul E. Bennet</li>
<li>Ulrich Hoffmann (from Wednesday 16:00)</li>
<li>Peter Knaggs (from Thursday 9:00)</li>
</ul>
<p>Notetakers: SB AE PK</p>
<h2 id="procedures">Procedures</h2>
<p>Discussion about what to do with proposals on forth-standard.org, and what to do with the old channels (mailing list and comp.lang.forth).</p>
<p>The proposal process moves to http://forth-standard.org. New proposals need to be made only there, and proposals elsewhere are no longer accepted as official. 10Y:0N:0A</p>
<p>The committee can distinguish unfinished, but promising proposals as “committee-supported proposal”.</p>
<h2 id="reports">Reports</h2>
<p>Have libraries for the memory access proposals (both of them) <strong>SP/LW/BP</strong><br />
and see what sticks 10Y:0:0</p>
<h2 id="proposals">Proposals</h2>
<h3 id="a-cs-drop">a) CS-DROP</h3>
<p>some revision necessary <strong>UH/AE</strong></p>
<h3 id="b-unsigned-double-naming-convention">b) Unsigned double naming convention</h3>
<p>Proposal dead, make proposal for destandardizing “123.” <strong>AE</strong></p>
<h3 id="d-quotations">d) Quotations</h3>
<p>see CfVs</p>
<h2 id="cfvs">CfVs</h2>
<p>Quotations: 11Y:0N:1A</p>
<h2 id="workshops">Workshops</h2>
<h3 id="a-publications-issues">a) Publications issues</h3>
<p>Discussion. Change the legal notice to make it clearer that Forth-2012 is something more solid than mere drafts. <strong>LW</strong><br />
Add features to Forth-standard.org <strong>GW</strong><br />
Publish source on Github <strong>PK</strong></p>
<h3 id="b-recognizers">b) Recognizers</h3>
<p>Bikeshedding discussion on names, resulting in suggested name changes Promote to committe-supported proposal: is on the right track but needs more work; suggest name changes 10Y:0:1A <strong>BP Matthias Trute</strong><br />
Work on stack handling <strong>BP</strong></p>
<h3 id="c-single-xt">c) Single-XT</h3>
<p>Lively discussion.<br />
E.g., should “LOCATE I” show the location of I or is it allowed to show the location of R@?<br />
FIND-NAME FIND-NAME-IN proposal <strong>AE</strong><br />
FIND-XT proposal <strong>SP</strong></p>
<h3 id="d-directories">d) Directories</h3>
<p>Presentation and discussion with some progress <strong>GW</strong></p>
<h3 id="e-multi-tasking">e) multi-tasking</h3>
<p>Presentation. Work towards proposal <strong>AH</strong></p>
<h3 id="f-sockets">f) sockets</h3>
<p>Discussion <strong>GW</strong></p>
<h3 id="g-i18n">g) i18n</h3>
<p>Presentation, discussion and suggested changes <strong>SP</strong><br />
language and country codes <strong>BP/PK</strong></p>
<h3 id="h-s-and-s-from-file">h) S" and S" from file</h3>
<p>Move interpretation semantics to core/core-ext versions 11Y:0:0<br />
Draft the change: <strong>AE</strong></p>
<h3 id="i-remove-ambiguous-conditions">i) remove ambiguous conditions</h3>
<p>Make the exception wordset mandatory 12Y:0:0<br />
Draft change <strong>AE</strong></p>
<p>Turn ambiguous condition in 3.4 into “possibly do system-specific recognizers; when unsuccessful, perform -13 throw” 12Y:0:0<br />
Rewording AE/UH 11Y:0N:1A</p>
<p>For the ambiguous condition in 3.4.1, perform -18 throw. 12Y:0:0<br />
Rewording <strong>LW/UH</strong></p>
<p>3.3.3 stay ambiguous. Mention it explicitly <strong>PK</strong> 11Y:0:0<br />
Rationale Draft by AE 12Y:0:0</p>
<p>3.3.3.1 stay ambiguous 11Y:0:0<br />
Rationale Draft by AE 12Y:0:0</p>
<p>argument type incompatible with specified input parameter: keep it, remove the example. <strong>UH</strong> 12Y:0:0</p>
<h3 id="j-compilation-together-with-c">j) compilation (together with c)</h3>
<p>Presentation and some discussion</p>
<h2 id="matters-arising">Matters arising</h2>
<p>Discussion of proposals:</p>
<p>Implementations requiring BOTH 32 bit single floats and 64 bit double floats. (forth-standard.org zhtoor). response on part of the committee <strong>GW</strong></p>
<p>The value of STATE should be restored (forth-standard.org AlexDyachenko). No committee response for now AE</p>
<p>Drop Double Number Input (comp.lang.forth, Matthias Trute). Unlikely to find consenus in the foreseeable future <strong>AE</strong></p>
<p>Electronic Meeting Dec 14th 19h CET 18h UTC 10h PST</p>
