SFP_Meeting_notes_2019.txt
==========================

1) Participants
===============
Willem Botha
Jermaine Davies
Anton Ertl
Ulli Hoffman
Peter Knaggs
Howerd Oakford
Bernd Paysan
Stephen Pelc
Leon Wagner (remote)
Gerald Wodni

2) Review of procedures
=======================

a) Remote attendance

There were two requests for remote attendance, one from Juergen
Pintaske to be an observer and one from Leon Wagner as a full
member.

After discussion covering privacy and confidence issues, it was
decided by consensus that committee members in good standing can
attend remotely, but that observers cannot.

Leon had provided a simple conference phone set. After the second
day we all believed that a better internet connection and hardware
are required.

b) (SFP) The meeting minutes are not detailed enough for people
who did not participate in the meeting. The note-takers (AE, PK, SP)
agreed to try harder.

c) (SFP) GW should put the meeting agendas and minutes at forth-
standard.org. Action AE, GW, PJK

d) (SFP) Other actions to migrate forth200x.org to forth-
standard.org have not been implemented. Action GW

e) (PJK et al)
Move updated proposal process to document. Action PJK.

f) (BP) Brexit consequences.
   We will do nothing until we have to. After Brexit, UK citizens
   will no longer be treated as EU citizens. The most likely action is to
   change to being a foreign community under German law if/when the
   UK leaves the EU.

3) Reports
==========
a) Chair (SFP) - too busy to do much
b) Editor (PJK) - too busy to do much
c) Technical (GW) - only small changes to forth-standard.org
   Will add meetings and proposals
d) Treasurer (BP) - no bank, no income, no expenditure

4) Proposals and activities
===========================
With the introduction of the forth-standard.org website, there has been
an explosion of discussion and topics.

a) Recognisers
   Matthias Trute has serious health issues. BP will take over
   the proposal. It was suggested that we apply the IETF approach,
   "rough consensus and running code".

b) Multitasking
   Andrew Haley (proposer) was not present.
   SFP to contact APH re progress (done).
   Workshop BP, SFP, GW ... all.

c) External Functions
   Use FUNCTION: or SWIG - Workshop
   SFP to write up

d) Rationale for BL.

e) ./ for relative file INCLUDE and friends.
   This should go to a proposal, SFP and AE?

f) Internatioalisation
   Authors to take to proposal.

g) UH to write proposal for VOCABULARY
   AE response and proposal

h) TO findable? Ambiguous condition?
   By committee consensus, there's a bug in the standard.

i) Case sensitivity
   Make case insensitive the default for ASCII only.
   AE to write proposal.

j) [ELSE] without [IF]

k) F>R, FR>
   AE to raise to proposal, add common practice.

l) '/['] EXIT EXECUTE - legal/standard
   Good point, will investigate further. AE?

m) [DEFINED] needs a definition of search order.
   COMPILE, should be a regular word
   AE to draft.

n) Code, data, name spaces
   AE to respond.

o) POSTPONE ambiguous condition. PJK responded.

p) GNU C RESTRICT.
   PJK responded that proposal would not reach consensus.

q) CS-DROP. Go to call for vote.

r) FP locals.
   SFP to add F: notation proposal

s) ACCEPT
   AE to respond.

t) Numeric overflow
   AE has responded

u) Cell width for numbers

v) BUFFER:
   AE's proposal was rejected.

w) POSTPONE [IF]
   BP to update rationale for [IF]

x) doc - execute compilation semantics analagous 9/0/1
   what is this?

y) RTYPE right justified TYPE.
   SFP to respond
   a) update to full proposal
   b) unlikely to pass
   c) WIBNI - existing practice?

z) LOAD clarification
   HO responded

aa) BLOCK, LIST
    no further action

ab) Tools, NT
    ???

ac) >IN clarafications - no further action

ad) Ambiguous conditions RFC
    ???

ae) IMMEDIATE
    Someone else should ...

5 Consideration of proposals + CfV votes
============================

6) Workshops
============
Multi-tasking
  homework for all

./ relative include
  Now implemented in VFX
  take to proposal by GW/UH

Internationalisation
  Remove DCS/OCS/ACS discussion -
  Define L" with dual behaviour
  UH to convert proposal to Markdown for forth-standard.org


7) Matters arising
==================

8) Any other business
=====================
Date of next meeting - 3 days before next EuroForth

